Add TiDB Dashboard session docs (#6058)
pingcap/docs: dashboard/dashboard-session-sso.md

---
title: Configure SSO for TiDB Dashboard

> summary: Learn how to enable SSO sign in for TiDB Dashboard

Reviewer: ```suggestion
summary: Learn how to enable SSO to sign into TiDB Dashboard.
```

---

# Configure SSO for TiDB Dashboard

> TiDB Dashboard supports [OIDC](https://openid.net/connect/) based Single Sign-On (SSO). After enabling the SSO feature of the TiDB Dashboard, users can authenticate with the configured SSO service and then use TiDB Dashboard without entering the SQL user password.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
TiDB Dashboard supports [OIDC](https://openid.net/connect/)-based Single Sign-On (SSO). After enabling the SSO feature of TiDB Dashboard, the configured SSO service is used for your sign-in authentication and then you can access TiDB Dashboard without entering the SQL user password.
```

## Configure OIDC SSO

### Enable SSO

1. Sign into TiDB Dashboard.

> 2. Click the username in the left sidebar to access the configure page.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
2. Click the username in the left sidebar to access the configuration page.
```

> 3. Under the **Single Sign-On** section, select **Enable to use SSO when sign into TiDB Dashboard** 。

Reviewer: ```suggestion
3. In the **Single Sign-On** section, select **Enable to use SSO when sign into TiDB Dashboard**.
```

4. Fill the **OIDC Client ID** and the **OIDC Discovery URL** fields in the form.

>    Generally the two fields can be obtained from the SSO service provider:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
   Generally, you can obtain the two fields from the SSO service provider:
```

>    - OIDC Client ID: a.k.a. OIDC Token Issuer
>    - OIDC Discovery URL: a.k.a. OIDC Token Audience

Reviewer: ```suggestion
   - OIDC Client ID is also called OIDC Token Issuer.
   - OIDC Discovery URL is also called OIDC Token Audience.
```

5. Click **Authorize Impersonation** and input the SQL password.

>    TiDB Dashboard will store this SQL password and use it to impersonate a normal SQL sign-in after an SSO sign in is finished.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
   TiDB Dashboard will store this SQL password and use it to impersonate a normal SQL sign-in after an SSO sign-in is finished.
```

   ![Sample Step](/media/dashboard/dashboard-session-sso-enable-1.png)

   > **Note:**
   >

>    > The password you entered will be encrypted and stored. The SSO sign-in will fail after the password of the SQL user is changed. In this case, you can re-enter the password to bring SSO back again.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
   > The password you have entered will be encrypted and stored. The SSO sign-in will fail after the password of the SQL user is changed. In this case, you can re-enter the password to bring SSO back.
```

6. Click **Authorize and Save**.

   ![Sample Step](/media/dashboard/dashboard-session-sso-enable-2.png)

7. Click **Update** (Update) to save the configuration.

   ![Sample Step](/media/dashboard/dashboard-session-sso-enable-3.png)

> Now SSO sign in has been enabled for TiDB Dashboard.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Now SSO sign-in has been enabled for TiDB Dashboard.
```

> **Note:**
>

> > For security, some SSO services requires additional configuration for the SSO service, like trusted sign in and sign out URIs. Please refer to the documentation of the SSO service for further information.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
> For security reasons, some SSO services require additional configuration for the SSO service, such as the trusted sign-in and sign-out URIs. Refer to the documentation of the SSO service for further information.
```

### Disable SSO

You can disable the SSO, which will completely erase the stored SQL password:

1. Sign into TiDB Dashboard.

> 2. Click the username in the left sidebar to access the configure page.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
2. Click the username in the left sidebar to access the configuration page.
```

> 3. Under the **Single Sign-On** section, deselect **Enable to use SSO when sign into TiDB Dashboard** 。

Reviewer: ```suggestion
3. In the **Single Sign-On** section, deselect **Enable to use SSO when sign into TiDB Dashboard**.
```

4. Click **Update** (Update) to save the configuration.

   ![Sample Step](/media/dashboard/dashboard-session-sso-disable.png)

> ### Re-entering the Password after a Password Change

Reviewer: ```suggestion
### Re-enter the password after a password change
```

The SSO sign-in will fail once the password of the SQL user is changed. In this case, you can bring back the SSO sign-in by re-entering the SQL password:

1. Sign into TiDB Dashboard.

> 2. Click the username in the left sidebar to access the configure page.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
2. Click the username in the left sidebar to access the configuration page.
```

> 3. Under the **Single Sign-On** section, Click **Authorize Impersonation** and input the updated SQL password.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
3. In the **Single Sign-On** section, Click **Authorize Impersonation** and input the updated SQL password.
```

   ![Sample Step](/media/dashboard/dashboard-session-sso-reauthorize.png)

4. Click **Authorize and Save**.

> ## Sign in with SSO

Reviewer: ```suggestion
## Sign in via SSO
```

> Once SSO is configured for the TiDB Dashboard, you can sign in via SSO by following steps below:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Once SSO is configured for TiDB Dashboard, you can sign in via SSO by taking following steps:
```

> 1. In the sign in page of TiDB Dashboard, click **Sign in via Company Account**.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
1. In the sign-in page of TiDB Dashboard, click **Sign in via Company Account**.
```

   ![Sample Step](/media/dashboard/dashboard-session-sso-signin.png)

> 2. Sign in in the configured SSO service.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
2. Sign into the system with SSO service configured.
```

> 3. You will be redirected back to the TiDB Dashboard to finish the sign in.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
3. You are redirected back to TiDB Dashboard to finish the sign-in.
```

> ## Sample: Use Okta for TiDB Dashboard SSO

Reviewer: ```suggestion
## Example: Use Okta for TiDB Dashboard SSO sign-in
```

> [Okta](https://www.okta.com/) is an OIDC SSO identity service, which is compatible with the SSO feature of TiDB Dashboard. Steps below demostrates how to configure Okta and TiDB Dashboard so that Okta can be used as the TiDB Dashboard SSO provider.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
[Okta](https://www.okta.com/) is an OIDC SSO identity service, which is compatible with the SSO feature of TiDB Dashboard. The steps below demonstrate how to configure Okta and TiDB Dashboard so that Okta can be used as the TiDB Dashboard SSO provider.
```

### Step 1: Configure Okta

> First, create an Okta Application Integration.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
First, create an Okta Application Integration to integrate SSO.
```

> 1. Access Okta admin site.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
1. Access the Okta administration site.
```

> 2. Navigate from left sidebar **Applications** > **Applications**.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
2. Navigate from the left sidebar **Applications** > **Applications**.
```

3. Click **Create App Integration**。

   ![Sample Step](/media/dashboard/dashboard-session-sso-okta-1.png)

4. In the poped up dialog, choose **OIDC - OpenID Connect** in **Sign-in method**.

5. Choose **Single-Page Application** in **Application Type**.

> 6. Click **Next** button.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
6. Click the **Next** button.
```

   ![Sample Step](/media/dashboard/dashboard-session-sso-okta-2.png)

> 7. Fill **Sign-in redirect URIs** as:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
7. Fill **Sign-in redirect URIs** as follows:
```

   ```
   http://DASHBOARD_IP:PORT/dashboard/?sso_callback=1
   ```

   Substitute `DASHBOARD_IP:PORT` with the actual domain (or IP address) and port that you use to access the TiDB Dashboard in the browser.

> 8. Fill **Sign-out redirect URIs** as:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
8. Fill **Sign-out redirect URIs** as follows:
```

   ```
   http://DASHBOARD_IP:PORT/dashboard/
   ```

   Similarly, substitute `DASHBOARD_IP:PORT` with the actual domain (or IP address) and port.

   ![Sample Step](/media/dashboard/dashboard-session-sso-okta-3.png)

> 9. Configure what kind of users in the organization is allowed to SSO sign in in the **Assignments** field, and then click **Save** to save the configuration.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
9. Configure what type of users in your organization is allowed for SSO sign-in in the **Assignments** field, and then click **Save** to save the configuration.
```

   ![Sample Step](/media/dashboard/dashboard-session-sso-okta-4.png)

### Step 2: Obtain OIDC information and fill in TiDB Dashboard

1. In the Application Integration just created in Okta, click **Sign On**.

   ![Sample Step 1](/media/dashboard/dashboard-session-sso-okta-info-1.png)

2. Copy values of the **Issuer** and **Audience** fields from the **OpenID Connect ID Token** section.

   ![Sample Step 2](/media/dashboard/dashboard-session-sso-okta-info-2.png)

> 3. Open TiDB Dashboard configure page, fill **OIDC Client ID** with **Issuer** obtained from the last step and fill **OIDC Discovery URL** with **Audience**. Then finish the authorization and save configuration, as:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
3. Open the TiDB Dashboard configuration page, fill **OIDC Client ID** with **Issuer** obtained from the last step and fill **OIDC Discovery URL** with **Audience**. Then finish the authorization and save the configuration. For example:
```

   ![Sample Step 3](/media/dashboard/dashboard-session-sso-okta-info-3.png)

> Now TiDB Dashboard has been configured to use Okta SSO for signing in.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Now TiDB Dashboard has been configured to use Okta SSO for sign-in.
```
